Hmm, hmm.
I'm having tons of fun.
Hope you learned a lot.
Let's just go back to where we started.
Remember, we said it only exists on 2.2 times this index of method, the first on type we've looked
at as a race.
What do you think the second type is?
Well, it is.
Drumroll, please.
So this one slide you're looking at here is a very important one.
Gives you a very high level overview of this index of method.
We've looked at a ton of examples with arrays.
I want to finish off this lecture now by looking at examples with us working with strings.
It starts seeing how that works.
It's going to be a lot of fun.
Trust me.
Hey, wow, OK.
This is really cool.
We've just done arrays.
But now I want us to get on to strings.
How does that work?
And it's really exciting.
You'll see none.
So let's jump into it.
Cool.
OK.
Where do we start?
Oh, the first thing I want to show you here is if we go to our console, we console third.
The array is just actually clear console and let's do the same with the string.
Pretty straightforward, we open the string, we look at a prototype, we scroll down, and there,
my dear students, is index of this is the second daughter type in JavaScript that gives us access to
this awesome, useful method.
So you go, I just wanted to prove to you that it is found on this data type as well.
If we go back to our coding it, it's a late start looking at this in action.
So let's delete our erasure.
We've looked at arrays it now creates, I don't know, a sentence.
And it's just a.
Hello, world.
The universe.
Often what's wrong with my typing today welcomes you?
So these are so intense, we know this is of Typekit strength.
How do we know that all of its console console.log type of sentence?
And it's pretty obvious that we know it's a string and because we know it's a string, we know we have
access to this index of method.
So let's define a variable called in its axis, our sentence.
And let's search for something.
Let's search for the word welcomes.
Let's see if that's in here.
Where do you think that would be?
It's console.log.
Email to the screen and we get a number 26 six.
Why?
Twenty six?
Well, let's start counting together.
We know this is index zero one two three four five six seven eight nine 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and of course, 26 is we welcome.
This begins a very useful method.
This define a constant call, I don't know, sentence again, and let's just say here, are you learning
a lot in this course?
I hope so.
Keep learning.
And so let's start using this index of let's start getting a more intuitive feel.
Let's define a new JavaScript variable called search word.
This is what we want to search for, and let's say we want to search for the new word learning.
You can see, firstly, straight off the bat, we have two words don't we?
Learning and learning?
So just bear that in mind.
So this define a new variable called first time.
And let's access our sentence constant, that's access this index of method, and let's search usage
would.
It's console.log this first time out.
It's ait's and we know it's AIDS because it's the eighth character from the very beginning.
Is this the first learning word?
But now how do we access the second learning word?
How we do that?
Well, let me give you a clue, let's utilize the second argument in the index of method.
It's all we have to do is is to find a new variable called second time.
This next sentence just realized the spotless and gritty.
Sentence.
So they we go.
Let's access index of what we want to do now.
We want to search for our search word, don't we?
This time, we want to utilize the starting point, and where do we want to start, what is sought after?
It's founded first item, which is the first time plus one.
So now we know it's going to search through our array, but only starting after we've passed the first
learning word.
I hope it's making sense.
If we console.log this out, we get to 44, which is exactly what we'd expect.
Using index of this way can be very useful in your code and you can do a lot of things with it.
I don't know.
Let's give you an example.
Let's define a variable called solution one.
Let's use template literals and let's say the index of the first, OK?
And we use here the variable search word.
Word from the beginning.
Is.
And he will go first time.
And if we return this to the screen.
We literally get console.log to us, the index on the first learning word from the beginning is eight.
How awesome is this?
We combining a lot of things that we combining temperate literals with combining the dollar sign curly
braces to incorporate expressions and variables within our team, the drum steamy, cool and it's going
to help you a lot along the way.
Of course, we can do the same full solution to.
Solution to why don't we just copy this instead of doing it all again?
And we know this is the second.
Surgery from the beginning is not first time, but it's.
Second time.
And if we return that.
We get exactly the same thing, but now we are referencing the second learning word coup.
Okay.
Sorry.
And sometimes they get carried away and I'm maybe going a bit more advanced than you need to know right
now.
But trust me, this will help you in your coding career.
And I want you to become a master at all this stuff.
Hope is starting to make sense.
The other thing I want to show you is let's delete everything.
I want to show you that index of is case sensitive.
So what I mean will, if we have a word and let's say the word is red dog, if we now console.log and
we exist our word string, we accessed the index of method and we search for dog.
We know that it exists.
Again, this would make sense, but what about if we did the same?
But yeah, we want to look for the word red.
As you can see, it's case sensitive.
We returned negative one A. A. It does not exist.
If we change the small R to Big R, it does exist.
It's in fact the very first item in our era.
Cool.
I hope you're learning a ton.
The last thing I want to get across is that zero does not evaluate the true and negative one doesn't
evaluate to false.
Remember, if we've got a small R, it's a negative one doesn't coerce to false.
It's kind of a weird nuance when it comes to this method.
So how do I prove this to you?
Well, let me prove it to you by using JavaScript.
If statement and what I want to compete here, I want to say if the word riot contains, say, red.
It's dense evaluates to false, then let's execute this kind of, let's say, console log.
This is the correct answer.
Answer.
I'll.
Console log, this is the wrong answer.
And now you'll see a problem, you'll see that because of what is returned to us is the wrong answer.
We know that the small are should not exist in our street because it only has the Capital R rate.
So why are we hitting the second console log in our statement?
The reason is is that the negative one does not evaluates to false.
So therefore, we are hitting this answer and it's the wrong answer.
Therefore, the point I'm trying to make is that we in checking if a specific string exists within another
string, the correct way is to use negative one.
For example, if we replaced false with negative one.
Why is this not working?
Negative one?
The we got to we get the correct answer this time.
Very, very important point.
I've just shared with you.
Please keep that in mind.
So there you have it.
We've just use index of the race.
We've just used it with strings.
We've discussed various ways.
You can use it.
We know that it's case sensitive.
We know that you can't kind of coerce Sidney into one to false.
And these are pretty advanced topics.
So don't take it for granted.
Celebrate these small wins.
But anyway, let's move on and I'll see you in the next picture.